10:25
12:46



Brainstorm

Requisitos
Projeto
Implementação
Teste
Validação
Criticalidade
Patterns
Padrões
Service-Oriented
Exceções
Separation of Concerns
Domain-Driven Design
Generative Approach
Processos
Assertivas
Engenharia reversa
Medição
Segurança
Educação













What is the nature of the gap between the systems we want and the systems we program? 
How can we cope with the uncertainty of the real world in the systems we build? 
How can we find/maintain the overlapping conceptual models underneath programs? 
How can we weave, unweave, and reweave the conceptual threads that compose programs? 

What is Programming anyway? 

The activity of manipulating a formal language? 
A constraint-solving refinement process that produces complete/executable specifications from perpetual fuzzyness? 
What can we learn about Programming in other fields? 
What are the scientific underpinnings of this human activity? 
What models should drive the design of formal languages and programming tools? 
What sociological models explain the dynamics of teams of software developers? 
What models explain change and adaptation? 

What about programs in the biological world? 

What can we learn from DNA programs? 
How does biology cope with change and evolution? 
Is that a good model for the purposeful systems we build? 

And what is modularity for, really? 

Why do we always end up dividing our systems into subsystems? 
Why does Nature also do it? (Or does it? Is modularity in our minds only?) 
How can we find out whether our decompositions are good? 
How black should black boxes be? 


OOPSLA:

significance: Motivate why the research is important or useful. Explain what problem it addresses. 
novelty: Extend the frontier of knowledge. Explicitly relate your research to previous work. 
correctness: Critically evaluate and support your claims with proofs, an implementation, examples, or experiments. 
clarity: Organize the paper well and write clearly. Make sure you support your claims


ICSE
The research abstract should be a maximum four (4) pages long, formatted in accordance with the ICSE 2006 Format and Submission Guidelines. It should cover: the technical problem to be solved with a justification of its importance; an account of related and prior work explaining why this has not solved the problem; the research hypothesis or claim; a sketch of the proposed solution; the expected contributions of your dissertation research; progress in solving the stated problem; the methods you are using or will use to carry out your research; a plan for evaluating your work and presenting credible evidence of your results to the research community.


